{
 "anacron":"anacron is a computer program that performs periodic command scheduling, which is traditionally done by cron, but without assuming that the system is running continuously.",
 "aria2":"aria2 is a lightweight multi-protocol & multi-source, cross platform download utility operated in command-line. It supports HTTP/HTTPS, FTP, SFTP, BitTorrent and Metalink.",
 "audit":"The Linux Auditing System is a kernel subsystem the allows the kernel to record events of interest to intrusion detection systems, such as file access attempts, specific system calls, or custom events generated by trusted system binaries like login or sshd. The audit package provides the tools to configure the audit system, and to collect and process its output.",
 "autossh":"autossh is a program to start a copy of ssh and monitor it, restarting it as necessary should it die or stop passing traffic.",
 "axel":"Axel tries to accelerate HTTP\/FTP downloading process by using multiple connections for one file.",
 "bash-completion":"Adds programmable completion to the bash shell.",
 "bc":"bc is an arbitrary precision numeric processing language. Syntax is similar to C, but differs in many substantial areas. It supports interactive execution of statements.",
 "bluez":"Bluez is the Bluetooth stack for Linux, allowing Bluetooth adaptors and devices to be used with Linux.",
 "borgbackup":"BorgBackup (short: Borg) is a deduplicating backup program. Optionally, it supports compression and authenticated encryption. The main goal of Borg is to provide an efficient and secure way to backup data. The data deduplication technique used makes Borg suitable for daily backups since only changes are stored.",
 "btop":"Resource monitor that shows usage and stats for processor, memory, disks, network and processes. C++ version and continuation of bashtop and bpytop.",
 "bwm-ng":"A small and simple curses-based bandwidth monitor for Linux or other systems with \/proc\/net\/dev or net-tools netstat. You can choose whether to show all interfaces or only those interfaces that are up.",
 "cksfv":"Check SFV creates simple file verification (.sfv) It can also list and verify existing sfv files. It uses the crc32 checksum. This is used to verify that the files that you received are the same as the originals.",
 "ddrescue":"A data recovery tool that copies data from one file or block device to another, trying hard to rescue data in case of read errors. Every time you run it on the same output file, it tries to fill in the gaps.",
 "exiftool":"A platform-independent Perl library (Image::ExifTool) plus a command-line application (exiftool) for reading, writing, and editing meta information in image, audio, and video files. ExifTool supports many different types of metadata including EXIF, GPS, IPTC, XMP, JFIF, GeoTIFF, ICC Profile, Photoshop IRB, AFCP, FlashPix, AFCP, and ID3, and maker notes of many digital cameras.",
 "fd":"A simple, fast and user-friendly alternative to find.",
 "fdupes":"A program for identifying or deleting duplicate files residing within specified directories.",
 "fio":"Is a tool that will spawn a number of threads or processes doing a particular type of io action as specified by the user. fio takes a number of global parameters, each inherited by the thread unless otherwise parameters given to them overriding that setting is given. The typical use of fio is to write a job file matching the io load one wants to simulate.",
 "fish":"Is a user friendly command line shell for UNIX-like systems. fish includes case insensitive completions, a multiline editing system, a new and simplified key binding system, and a large number of command specific completions.",
 "fzf":"A command-line fuzzy finder written in Go.",
 "gnupg2":"gnupg2 (The GNU Privacy Guard version 2.x) GnuPG is GNU's tool for secure communication and data storage. It can be used to encrypt data and to create digital signatures. It includes an advanced key management facility and is compliant with the proposed OpenPGP Internet standard as described in RFC2440 and the S/MIME standard as described by several RFCs. GnuPG 2.x is the stable version of GnuPG integrating support for OpenPGP and S/MIME. It does not conflict with an installed 1.4.x OpenPGP-only version.",
 "gpgme":"Is a C language library that allows to add support for cryptography to a program. It is designed to make access to public key crypto engines like GnuPG or GpgSM easier for applications. GPGME provides a high-level crypto API for encryption, decryption, signing, signature verification and key management. GPGME uses GnuPG and GpgSM as its backends to support OpenPGP and the Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS).",
 "iftop":"It listens to network traffic on a named interface and displays a table of current bandwidth usage by pairs of hosts. Handy for answering the question  why is our link so slow?",
 "iotop":"A Python program with a top-like UI used to show of behalf of which process is the I\/O going on.",
 "ipmitool":"A utility for managing and configuring devices that support the Intelligent Platform Management Interface.",
 "irssi":"An Internet Relay Chat.",
 "jdupes":"Identifying and taking action upon duplicate files.",
 "lftp":"A program that allows sophisticated ftp and http connections to other hosts. lftp can handle many file access methods including ftp, ftps, http, https, hftp, fish and file. Every operation in lftp is reliable, that is any non-fatal error is ignored and the operation is retried. lftp has shell-like command syntax. Has a built in mirror feature which can download or upload a whole directory tree. To learn about many more features of lftp, see  man lftp.",
 "libassuan":"This is the IPC library used by GnuPG 2.x, GPGME and a few other packages.",
 "libjodycode":"libjodycode is a software code library containing code shared among several of the programs written by Jody Bruchon such as imagepile, jdupes, winregfs, and zeromerge.", 
 "libmediainfo":"A library for mediainfo.",
 "libnl":"libnl (netlink socket library) libnl is a library for applications dealing with netlink sockets. The library provides an interface for raw netlink messaging and various netlink family specific interfaces.",
 "libsodium":"Sodium is a library for encryption, decryption, signatures, password hashing and more. It is a portable, cross-compilable, installable, packageable fork of NaCl, with a compatible API, and an extended API to improve usability even further. Its goal is to provide all of the core operations needed to build higher-level cryptographic tools.",
 "liburing":"liburing (io_uring instance library) This is the io_uring library, liburing. liburing provides helpers to setup and teardown io_uring instances, and also a simplified interface for applications that don't need (or want) to deal with the full kernel side implementation.",
 "libzen":"A mandatory library for libmediainfo.",
 "llfuse":"A set of Python bindings for the low level FUSE API.",
 "mediainfo":"Supplies technical and tag information about a video or audio file.",
 "mlocate":"A locate/updatedb implementation. It keeps a database of all existing files and allows you to lookup files by name. The 'm' updatedb reuses the existing database to avoid rereading most of the file system, which makes updatedb faster and does not trash the system caches as much as traditional locate implementations.",
 "msgpack-python":"MessagePack is an efficient binary serialization format. It lets you exchange data among multiple languages like JSON. But it's faster and smaller. Small integers are encoded into a single byte, and typical short strings require only one extra byte in addition to the strings themselves.",
 "mktorrent":"Torrent file creator",
 "ncdu":"ncdu is an ncurses version of the famous old du unix command. It provides a fast and easy interface to your harddrive.",
 "neofetch":"neofetch is a script similar to screenfetch. This script can be used to generate any information about your system, it will auto-detect your system and print it to the terminal next to an image, a distro logo or an ASCII art of your choice.",
 "nload":"nload is a console application which monitors network traffic and bandwidth usage in real time. It visualizes the in and outgoing traffic using two graphs and provides additional info like total amount of transfered data an min/max network usage.",
 "nmap":"nmap (network scanner) Nmap is an open source utility for network exploration or security auditing. It was designed to rapidly scan large networks, although it works fine against single hosts. Nmap uses raw IP packets in novel ways to determine what hosts are available on the network, what services (ports) they are offering, what operating system (and OS version) they are running, what type of packet filters/firewalls are in use, and dozens of other characteristics. Nmap runs on most types of computers, and both console and graphical versions are available.",
 "nodejs":"A platform built on Chrome V8 JavaScript runtime for easily building fast, scalable network applications. Node.js uses an event-driven, non-blocking I/O model that makes it lightweight and efficient, perfect for data-intensive real-time applications that run across distributed devices.",
 "npth":"npth (New GNU Portable Threads) nPth is a non-preemptive threads implementation based on the system's standard threads implementation and is often used to provide a co-routine based framework.",
 "p7zip":"7-Zip is a well-known file compression utility for windows. p7zip is a ported version for linux with nearly the same capabilities.",
 "par2cmdline":"A tool for creating and using PAR2 parity sets to detect damage in files.",
 "pigz":"parallel implementation of gzip, is a fully functional replacement for gzip that exploits multiple processors and multiple cores to the hilt when compressing data.",
 "pip":"a replacement for easy_install from python-setuptools.",
 "plocate":"plocate is a locate based on posting lists. Compared to mlocate, it is much faster, and its index is much smaller. updatedb speed is similar (or you can convert mlocate's index to plocate format using plocate-build). It supports most mlocate options.",
 "powershell":"Is a task-based command-line shell and scripting language built on .NET. PowerShell helps system administrators and power-users rapidly automate tasks that manage operating systems (Linux, macOS, and Windows) and processes.",
 "powertop":"PowerTOP is a utility that collects data from your system and presents an overview to help optimize power savings. PowerTOP will identify which tunables and software components are the biggest offenders in slurping up your battery time.",
 "python2":"An interpreted, interactive, object-oriented programming language that combines remarkable power with very clear syntax. Its basic power can be extended with your own modules written in C or C++. It is also adaptable as an extension language for existing applications.",
 "python3":"Python is an interpreted, interactive, object-oriented programming language that combines remarkable power with very clear syntax. This is a new version of the language that is incompatible with the 2.x line of releases. The language is mostly the same, but many details, especially how built-in objects like dictionaries and strings work, have changed considerably, and a lot of deprecated features have finally been removed. Also, the standard library has been reorganized in a few prominent places.",
 "python-packaging":"Core utilities for Python packages https://pypi.org/project/packaging/",
 "python-pip":"pip is a tool for installing and managing Python packages.",
 "python-setuptools":"A collection of enhancements to Python distutils.",
 "rar":"A powerful tool for processing RAR archives. This is a shareware program. You must buy a license from Rar Labs if you want to keep using rar.",
 "rar2fs":"FUSE based file system that can mount a source RAR archive or a directory containing any number of RAR archives and read the contents as regular files on-the-fly.",
 "rclone":"Rclone is a command-line program to manage files on cloud storage. It is a feature-rich alternative to cloud vendors' web storage interfaces. Over 40 cloud storage products support rclone including S3 object stores, business & consumer file storage services, as well as standard transfer protocols.",
 "restic":"restic is a backup program that is fast, efficient and secure. It supports the three major operating systems (Linux, macOS, Windows) and a few smaller ones (FreeBSD, OpenBSD).",
 "rsnapshot":"A remote backup program that uses rsync to take backup snapshots of filesystems. It uses hard links to save space on disk.",
 "ruby":"Ruby is an interpreted scripting language for quick and easy object-oriented programming. It has many features to process text files and to do system management tasks (as in Perl). It is simple, straight-forward, and extensible.",
 "screen":"A full-screen window manager that multiplexes a physical terminal between several processes (typically interactive shells). Each virtual terminal provides the functions of a DEC VT100 terminal and several control functions from the ISO 6492 (ECMA 48, ANSI X3.64) and ISO 2022 standards.",
 "slocate":"An enhanced version of locate, a command to help you locate files on the system. Like the original version of locate, it maintains a database of files on the system, updating it nightly. Unlike the original, it indexes every file on the machine rather than only the ones that can be seen by everyone. The secure part of slocate is that it will only return matches if the user is allowed to see the files.",
 "socat":"A relay for bidirectional data transfer between two independent data channels.",
 "sshfs":"This is a filesystem client based on the SSH File Transfer Protocol. Since most SSH servers already support this protocol it is very easy to set up: i.e. on the server side there s nothing to do. On the client side mounting the filesystem is as easy as logging into the server with ssh.",
 "sshpass":"Sshpass is a tool for non-interactivly performing password authentication with SSH's so called 'interactive keyboard password authentication'. Most users should use SSH's more secure public key authentiaction instead.",
 "stress":"stress test utility imposes certain types of compute stress on your system. ( cpu, io, vm, hdd )",
 "stunnel":"Designed to work as an SSL encryption wrapper between remote client and local or remote servers. The goal is to facilitate SSL encryption and authentication for non-SSL-aware programs. stunnel can be used to add SSL functionality to commonly used inetd daemons like POP-2, POP-3 and IMAP servers without any changes in the program code.",
 "tcl":"A simple to use text-based script language with many built-in features which make it especially nice for writing interactive scripts.",
 "tcllib":"Tcllib is a collection of utility modules for Tcl. These modules provide a wide variety of functionality, from implementations of standard data structures to implementations of common networking protocols.",
 "tcpdump":"A tool for network monitoring and data acquisition. You can use it to dump information on all the packets on a network that match a boolean expression.",
 "tmux":"A terminal multiplexer. It enables a number of terminals to be accessed and controlled from a single terminal.",
 "unrar":"Utility is for extracting, testing and viewing the contents of archives created with the RAR archiver version 1.50 and above.",
 "utf8proc":"utf8proc is a small, clean C library that provides Unicode normalization, case-folding, and other operations for data in the UTF-8 encoding.",
 "vim":"Vim is an almost compatible version of the UNIX editor vi. Many new features have been added: multi level undo, command line history, filename completion, block operations, and more. Vim s development is led by Bram Moolenaar. This package also contains the Exuberant Ctags program written by Darren Hiebert.",
 "wget2":"GNU Wget2 is the successor of GNU Wget, a file and recursive website downloader. Designed and written from scratch it wraps around libwget, that provides the basic functions needed by a web client. In many cases Wget2 downloads much faster than Wget1.x due to HTTP2, HTTP compression, parallel connections and use of If-Modified-Since HTTP header.",
 "zsh":"A UNIX command interpreter which resembles the Korn shell It includes enhancements of many types, notably in the command-line editor, options for customizing its behavior, filename globbing."
}